so okay let's get started a question we
frequently come across is someone says
well I don't know about x3 because I'm
training to to fire my train to engage
my type 2b fibers like I'm trying to get
to a certain type of type of fiber which
I know I'm more predisposed like
somebody who's a sprinter like I'm only
training my fast twitch fibers or my
slow twitch fibers it amazes me that
there are still people believe in that
you can train a certain fiber and not
another certain fiber based on his fiber
tight now there is such things fiber
type and they do engage at different
rates now when I tell you the rates you
will understand how stupid this line of
thinking is so I'm just this is just
from physiology texts like text like
this has been around since like the
1970s I may be on this so probably
before most of you were born so slow
twitch fiber which is type one engages
in 100 milliseconds so way less than a
second type to a fast twitch the
difference between small and fast 50
milliseconds so fires twice as fast but
that's in a window of time that is
immeasurable by humans
I mean instruments can measure it but
you can't like snap your fingers 100
milliseconds we're thinking all the
seconds apart so and of course type 2 B
is very fast 25 milliseconds so the
point is you're engaging a muscle when
you exercise when you use next door you
lose weight and if you're contracting
that muscle and you're conscious of that
can
action you're engaging everything and
everything grows when you stimulate when
you take the musculature to fatigue
whether it's standard training obviously
greater level of fatigue with x3 greater
level of growth of that story but you're
you're fatiguing all of these things
they're all firing it's a speed of
activation that's the only thing so you
can't really train for a specific fiber
type so it is information that while it
exists is highly meaningless to you
therefore you should not pay attention
to it there are many more of the things
that you should pay attention to that
are other than that so that's today's
falsehood fitna Fitness I'm back to back
multiply cast I'm headed to Greece to
launch
osteo strong there and give it a couple
lectures to some medical authorities in
that country and we're all coming down
Athens to hear me talk so let's out
behind I'll screw that up it's okay I
practiced this quite a bit and that same
same presentation that I gave at the
International osteoporosis foundation
conference a couple weeks ago City right
for Christmas so very exciting and I'll
share some of the comments and exciting
things from that and then come back for
a week I'll do another falsehood to
fitness or not next week but the week
after and then I head to Iceland after
that for some more loss to your strong
openings cascos drums on fire a lot of
people with greater bone density a lot
of happy people out there some of the
some people are just higher performing
athletes because the fracture resistant
who use osteo strong but the people who
I care most about are the ones like my
mother which is why I invented
these are the people who had a real need
they were at risk of fracture and no
longer at risk of fracture because they
have strong bone and so us he has
stronger delivers so thanks for tuning
in I know this is a quick one I'll have
time for questions probably the next
pulse is a fitness cut very weekend